---
title: "Development and evaluation of a numerical model for seismic analysis of segmental tunnels"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/1-paper
excerpt: 'We developed a sophisticated fiber beam-based numerical model for a segmental tunnel, incorporating the non-linearities embedded in the assembly with acceptable computational costs. The proposed model’s accuracy is validated via a series of experimental data under three loading scenarios. A sensitivity analysis demonstrates that the mechanical response of segmental tunnel highly relies on the assembly configurations. The proposed model is implemented to investigate the seismic response of a typical segmental tunnel under various ground motions, demonstrating its applicability in seismic safety assessments, particularly in capturing the nonlinear response of segmental tunnels under high-intensity earthquakes.'
date: 2022-12-1
#venue: 'Submitted to Journal of Earthquake and Tsunami, Under review.'
'Submitted to Journal of Earthquake and Tsunami, Under review.'
---
Segmental tunnel is widely adopted in the urban transportation system, thereby its seismic resilience is a cornerstone for resilient cities. Segmental tunnel is an assembly of reinforced concrete segment, bolt, gasket, and gap etc., and exhibits highly nonlinear behavior when subjected to external load-ings. Yet, in practice, its seismic response is generally estimated via a holistic modeling approach where segmental tunnel is represented by a homogeneous beam or shell element with equivalent stiffness. Here, a sophisticated numerical model is developed for a segmental tunnel, incorporating the nonlinearities embedded in the assembly with acceptable computational costs. The reinforced concrete segment is represented as the displacement-based fiber beam element, whereas the com-plex interaction among the configurations of joint, i.e., bolt, gasket, and contacting concrete, is modeled via the zero-length section element. The proposed model’s accuracy is validated via a series of experimental data under three loading scenarios. A sensitivity analysis demonstrates that the mechanical response of segmental tunnel highly relies on the assembly configurations. The pro-posed model is implemented to investigate the seismic response of a typical segmental tunnel under various ground motions, demonstrating its applicability in seismic safety assessments, particularly in capturing the nonlinear response of segmental tunnels under high-intensity earthquakes.